Global navigation satellite systems
Computers and Electronics in Agriculture, no. 25, pp. 67-85, 2000.
W. Lechner and S. Baumann

1. Explain the main idea of GPS, how the system works, 
	how many satellite signals are necessary toachieve a position estimate in three dimensions (x, y, z)?
S: A GPS reciever uses the distance to GPS sattelites to calculate its position,
 at least 4 sattelites are neccesary to provide a position in three dimensions. 

2. What is gained by using differential GPS?
	 How does a differential GPS works? 
		If you, on yourown, should build a differential GPS system, how would you do it?
S:Differential GNSS is a way of augmenting a GNSS signal, increasing its accuracy,
it uses a stationary station with a known position to increase the accuracy of the predicted position.
To build one on my own I would need an antenna and broadcast a GNSS message with position and time.

3. What sources of errors affect the position estimate of the GPS,
	 and thus also the DGPS?
S: Geometric position of sattelites, clock errors of sattelites,
ephemeris errors, tropospheric and ionospheric conditions, multipath effect and
inaccuracies of the reciever, SA

4. What does it means that satellites are geo-stationary?
	 Give some examples of systems that are using geo-stationary satellites.
S: Geo-stationary sattelites stays in the same position in the sky meaning they take one day to orbit.
EGNOS uses geo-stationary sattelites above the atlantic and indian oceans to augment their GNSS signals
the Japanese MSAS uses a geo-stationary sattelite at 36000 km above the equator at longitude 140 E

5. Galileo is an European co-operation, why is this system developed? 
	Why not simple use the existing GPS systems?
S: Exisiting systems are developed by the militaries of USA and Russia and may present a 
security risk for users, therefore galileo wants to develope a civilian GNSS.

6. The SA (Selective Availability) signal, was in 2000 removed by the order of the American president.
	 What does the SA signal do? Although, removed, the SA signal still leads to problem for e.g. European industry, why?
S:The SA signal deteriorates the GPS signal to prevent its use by hostile forces, the SA signal is the largest and most important source of error.

Precision Agriculture: Untangling the GPS Data String
Adamchuk, Viacheslav I., "EC01-157 Precision Agriculture: Untangling the GPS Data String" (2001).
Historical Materials from University of Nebraska-Lincoln Extension. Paper 707.

1. Why is it necessary to convert latitudes and longitudes from degrees, 
	minutes and decimal minutes to decimal degrees only? How is this done?
S: Computations need decimal values dd.dddddd = dd + mm.mmmm/60

2. Why is the conversion of longitude and latitude into linear units complicated? 
	Why is the latitude so important in equation 7? 
		How are Flon and Flat used for conversion of latitude and longitude intometers?
S: Since the conversions takes place on an ellipsoid changes in longitude depends on latitude
, latitude is important in equation 7 since each parralel represents a circle of constant radius
the radius is used to determine th longitude conversion factor Flon, phi is determined by latitude.
The units used for a,b and h in equation 7 determine the unit of the output.

3. How is speed calculated? Derive an expression for speed in m/s using latitude and longitude as input?
S: Speed is calculated by taking the distance between to points divided by the time
between the measurements. 
longitude = lambda, latitude = phi, time = tau
sqrt((Flat(phi1-phi2))^2+(Flon(lambda1-lambda2))^2)/(tau2-tau1) = speed

4. How do you decide if you travel in straight north or straight south direction using two points in latitude and longitude as input?
S: If lambda(longitude) is the same for both points you must be traveling north or south,
if phi1 is lesser than phi2 you are traveling north and the opposite for south.

5. What is heading? Is the traveling direction and heading of a vehicle,
	 equipped with a GPS, thesame? What is the condition of them to be the same? 
	(Tip: if you standing still with you vehicle,can you get the heading then?) .
S: Heading is the direction in which you are moving, represented as the angle between your
direction and north(0). You can only get the heading if you are moving since you need to take two measurements.



